Great. Again, thank you very much, everyone, as I said already, and welcome everyone again.
Thank you. Thank you very much for participating and making time and effort to organize the
arrangement and all those things, and so many things, and then able to make and to get there,
and at least reminding and inspiring to each other, according to our capabilities, both
our practice, our meditation, our spiritual journey, our goal, that what we're all following
in the same destination, same aim, same goal, and same identity, same intention. So again,
this is the gathering of the Sangha members all together. As one mandala, we're just really
trying to explore, as much as we can, according everyone's capabilities. In that context,
again always in the teaching said, and as always great masters, at one voice said, correct
the motivation, intention, to begin to activate our practice, absolutely teaching, down our
practice is relying on the motivation, not outside, to the material, to any other thing,
except our motivation. Motivation is our own mind, our own intentions. Intention is the
key to turn the engine and will of the spiritual and the Dharma. With all that intention, if
it don't change, nothing going to really happen. Maybe it's almost going to wrong directions.
Therefore, who has the intention, our ability or capability to change our own intention,
my own intention, no one else has besides myself? And each of you too. To change the
motivation and intention is absolutely 100% one is relying with us. So therefore, to make
practical and more kind of sensible, more meaningful than always in the teaching said, all the
great masters from the Buddha, every one of the linear master said, correct the motivation.
That will make the Dharma as supreme Dharma. To observe in our heart and mind and begin
to change our self of habit pattern. What are going to change? Changing the habit patterns.
Habit patterns, those unnecessary, unhealthy, and those all disturbance habit patterns that
we all have. We carry that packages from the beginningless times. And each time we adding
something more and more according to teaching, that was going to loosen up. It will every
change the motivation. Well, we're reflecting the teaching. Well, we are practicing the
Dharma. Well, we meditating all like contemplating the Dharma. Really, according to teaching,
it will lose that kind of gluey habit patterns. It will change and loosen up. And we become
more light, more peaceful, more happy. Those are in the teaching said. So therefore, again,
changing the motivation. This changing motivation is nothing easy, but to keep continuing is
difficult. That is to apply the practices. Changing the motivation. What direction this
time? Again, joy and appreciation. Simple, joy and appreciation. Make reason to make
joy and appreciation. See some kind of make reasons, kind of meaningful reasons. We have
all the beautiful things to compare it with all the different world, different countries,
different places, different areas, and look to our self. We have every reasons to feel
happy in the joy. Not just the only luxuries of the external, but we have some spiritual
qualities, loving kindness, compassion, respect and appreciation, considerations. Those also
we really have. We all have that. Those are the, we have to appreciate joy and appreciate
it. Being grateful. Those are the motivation. It's not something changing. Motivation means
we have to move the mountain or we have to do something big, gigantic things. Joy and
appreciation. When we bring joy and appreciation and heart and mind, what it does, that we
know, it brings more joy, more appreciation, more reach in our lives, not empty and hollow
and kind of heading way. It really brings more richness. Joy and appreciation. And that
brings what's called good heart, good heart, rich heart, abundance of heart, that's more
meaningful. And combine that joy and appreciation, then both each other. We resist so many
teachings.
Our joy and appreciation is not localized and kind of again with the ego clinging, grabbing
and territorically restricting, expanding. We think that joy and appreciation, good things,
what we have, even better, every more to all the beings. Really, the gracious teacher,
Buddha Kya Kya Muni is teaching those four boneless prayers. If you have time before
the practices, meditation, join those four boneless prayers, their mantras, their secret
prayers. May all living beings breathe from the suffering, the cause of sufferings, sincerely
wishing and express that with your, your tongue or your, we express how pure it is. We think
of many times we join, we buy on a practice, we join, or just kind of a casual. But that's
not really casual. Those are not casual. They are more rooted, deep, profound. Every open
the door of compassion, that will change the whole of our directions. That's witnessed
by all these great masters, great bodhisattvas. May all living beings have the happiness, cause
of happiness, those prayers, the mantra, the secret word, really. How powerful, how beautiful,
how open, how so enlightened. Not just seeing those words kind of like, like as the kind
of, without knowing the meaning. We all have the knowledge. We all started some degree,
but at least no more, what they were talking. How powerful it really comes. So those bodhisattvas
are so powerful, so important. According to the teaching of the lineage of monsters and
all that, even if we have practiced such more kind of fancy, beautiful names and all that,
but we lack of the bodhisattva, good heart, it almost become hallow, empty. It just then
kind of like you, just entering them, almost we become the radios. We become just kind
of like the broadcastings. Nothing is happening. Really too much. Just talk, talk, talk. But
it really is kind of filled there from the heart. And then say those words, praise. That
is practicing. Those are known as practitioners. Along with that, then the purity understand
of the realization of the Vedayana teachings. Hold, everything is pure. Poem is enlightened.
Even though we don't see, and sound is enlightened. Mind and space are enlightened. Pure from
the beginning, not just a newly arrived pure. Originally is pure. Those are teaching. Say
do you know, we all, most of all us Vedayana practitioners, we receive those teachings.
This is not just a kind of like wishy-washy talks. It's attaching to the meaning, attaching
to the core of the existing, of the way natures are. We are defeating, we are purifying our
habit patterns of the cataracts. We really purifying. We removing that. And after that,
we started right now, according to Vedayana. Discover in the purity, we discover in the
Akane star. Beyond the conception, we began, that process begins right now, when we begin
the practice of Vedayana teaching. That's why we called visualizations or creation stages.
Those all the processes, the discovery of the nature, the beautiful nature, the ordinary
nature, the inherent nature. Where things are natural that which is there exist. But
we don't see right now that, of course true. That's what we called obscured. Obscured by
our own habit pattern, our own creation of the habit patterns. That's what we are doing
practices to play with according to Buddha's teachings. So with those understand, now we
follow the teaching of the great master, great teacher, his Holiness, Dunyun Rambhuchis.
"Oh, Japji, Dunyun, Jagra, Ishii, Dorji." That many of you know and met and maybe received
the teachings. And many of you maybe don't exactly met him, but we are meeting the, is
meeting of the teaching of the, his Holiness, Dunyun Rambhuchis. That means, what's called
the, teachers are divided many times and said, "Dharmakaya, Sambokaya, Narmakaya, or Bori
speech mind." We are meeting the speech of the teacher. We are meeting the, also the
wisdom mind of the teacher. And that is great. That is the value important. Physically is
a changeable, but this ongoing, unceasing the continuation teaching as like Sambokaya
messages or richness qualities. And with the Dharmakaya mind, that is a great discovery.
That's a great contract and seeing the great masters. So in his legacy teaching that we
are following this again, and this is teaching, we went, we went through this kind of going
slowly by slowly. We're not just kind of running this and just complete this in this one session.
We can do that. I mean, we can do that. Or you can do too. I mean, it's all isolated.
We know translated that, but we're trying to explore the some degree meaning touch the
best of the Buddha teaching and get some little bit knowledge of that, those newly that, and
those who already started know, at least reminding, re-activating our knowledges and spy. That's
what really we're doing. We are trying to do and we're doing that. So we went slowly
by slowly. Last year we went through these teachings. And one way is so small, short.
But each Buddha teaching is actually in the teaching always said, even one syllables,
you just can discover the entire Buddha teachings. That means what? Eighty four thousand teachings.
All Buddha's teachings can discover from one syllables in the really teaching said that
you can discover because they're one syllable. So such a such syllable are is a magic world.
From there you can explore entirely teaching with Buddha's and explain everything within
that those who have capabilities. But at least we follow with this teaching and follow with
all the other great lineage teaching, put together some degree and then kind of reminding
to each other, the greatest teacher teaching, greatest teaching, teacher of the Buddha Khyakhman
is teaching and lineage teachings to inspire us and support our practice in meditation.
That's what really we've been doing. So again, today, we do the continually similar way there.
And we went through through this whole, this first page, first page. And I'm going to go
this last one today. Last line of this, this. Here, he's on the journey when he said, poor
wealth of the practitioners, poor wealth. This wealth, as you know, is not material wealth.
This is spiritual wealth of the practitioners. There's full wealth. He highlighted four of
those. The fourth one is this last line of this page, the page in particularly the devotion
to the root teachers. That's the number one, I think, love and affection for the Samaya
brothers, Sister. Two, the bodhicata of compassion power to all mother sent in beings. Three,
and the deduction of the grasping due to the knowledge that all compounded things are impermanent.
These four are what's named here, lastly, concluded title here, and are known as the
four everlasting wealth of the practitioners of the Dharma, practitioner of the Buddha
teaching, practitioner of the Vedayana practitioners should be regarded as indispensable. So that
means keep these four points, all the practitioners close to the heart or in the heart. Keep these
four. When we begin the practice at the first time, maybe we have those things, quite seedling
status, or at least one or two of those, quite seedling status. But along the way, while in
practices, many times those wealth are fading away, many times. Then our Dharma practices
kind of, instead, more accelerated, more strong, more deeper, in a way is a fading way. "Oh,
that I heard. I know. Oh, I read that in that." Seeing that word, it looks not so special,
not so important. "Oh, I heard. Oh, they say that." But what's happening? Then it becomes
the heart is more dry and it dries. Intention and interest are going on, and all that kind
of good, those old qualities are really fading away. Then what we're called, those old practices
can become even worse than the regular, just like average, those other lay persons. Many
times that happened in the past. That can happen again. Why? Because that treasure is lacking.
Wealth is reducing. Wealth is going where? Wealth is reducing. These four wealths, generally
each of those, you have the kind of seedling wealth. It really will bring all that together,
too. It's not something that you have to catch one wealth and other wealth in this and that.
Each of those really will support each other, will have all that. Therefore, this wealth
is kind of like skills of our practitioners, how our practice is going on now. How that?
That means, the practice means, actually Buddhism, we're not practicing to please the Buddhas.
Of course, Buddhas are very happy. Bodhisattvas are very happy, but we're doing this practice
to discover our own innate true nature. We like to become the Buddha. That's what the
gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni said, every living being has the same potential,
same nature as Buddha Shakyamuni himself did. We like to move to get that realization.
That is not just like the story of the Buddha said, and that never happened. All those lineage
masters, the 2,500 years ago, continued until now. How many great those practitioners reached
that status? All those great masters, we call them great masters, they reached enlightenment.
They reach the high Burmese, seven Burmese, eight Burmese, all five Burmese, really they
reach high realization. When they reach that, how and how they are, generally, they're so
calm, peaceful, love, compassion, passion, and respect, appreciation, so humble, so simple.
That's the art, and they truly become the beacon of the world, beacon of the peace and
harmonious respect and appreciation to all the beings. That's how that. So, therefore,
that we like to discover our own. Therefore, this wealth is so important to discover and
gain our spiritual realization or enlightenment or spiritual goal. Among that, the first one
is devotion to the root teachers. Now I'll talk a little bit about the teachers. Generally,
teachers, everyone has teachers. Even the lay schools, universities, schools, high schools,
they have teachers. There are many teachers. Then, as well as all the religious schools
or the religious schools on the world, everyone has teachers. There are so many different
terminologies and teachers mentioned. Everyone, and what their duties, what they do, they
teach. Then, teacher means, according to every consulting system, teacher means they have
some little more knowledge than others. That's why they become teachers. Knowledge. It didn't
mean they're all enlightened. Maybe. Maybe. I'm talking according to the Buddhism point.
It didn't mean they're all enlightened, but they have more knowledge, more experience,
more understanding than the one's own selves many times. Therefore, they're called teachers.
That teacher is important. What it does, it ignites the knowledge. According to Buddhism,
we have already no wisdom, but our wisdom is kind of like a dream or it is kind of like
not so ignited, not so sizzling. The teacher will help to igniting to bring a luminous
state according to our readiness. It really will help to enlighten them. That's what they
call known as the teachers. The teacher is every level, every school of this world, there
are so many teachers. But among the Buddhism, the teacher is so important. Teacher is important
because teacher will help to understanding and discovering the meaning of the teaching
of the Buddha. In that, for this reason, I go little, little details again on the teachers.
In the Buddha's teaching, generally, there are so many different teachers. But to summarize
that, this teaching, there are four categories of teachers. Those four, maybe if you like
to list it, you can list it. It's good. Good. You can write down that. Four teachers. Those
four teachers are first teachers. If I start from top to, kind of down, from the top to
down, pause it is teacher of Sambokaya Buddhas. So Sambokaya Buddha is number one teacher.
Second teacher is Nirmakaya Buddhas. That is second teacher. And third teacher is known
as, or third teachers are known as noble teachers. Noble teachers. And I go over those meanings
after this listed. And fourth one is ordinary teachers. So there is poor teachers. First
two teachers, Nirmakaya teacher and Sambokaya teachers, these first two teachers, how they
are. According to Buddhism, they are free from obscurations. Totally. Full of love,
compassion and wisdom. All negativity, free from all the negativities and fulfillment
of all the realizations. As a brilliant sun, shining in the sky, without any clothes or
disturbances, their love, their compassion, their wisdom, their knowledge is immeasurable
because there is no obscurations. No obscurations with ego clings, habit patterns. They're totally
the perfect teacher every day. Perfect teacher. No errors, no mistakes. And then many of you
already know, Nirmakaya Buddhas, Sambokaya Buddhas, all explanations. You all know that.
Many of you know that. So that is how these first two teachers are. First two teachers,
the first one is, for example, Sambokaya Buddhas. According to teaching, to receive the teaching
from Sambokaya Buddhas, you have to be very high realizations. At the Bhumi, ninth Bhumi,
tenth Bhumi, have to be both in Sattvas. To receive teaching. So for example, we don't
have capability of that. We're not at Bhumi, ninth Bhumi, tenth Bhumi yet. It's our goal
to be that level, but not yet. So we don't have, even the Sambokaya Buddha is ready to
give us teaching, but we couldn't due to our habit patterns. We weren't able to meet the
Sambokaya Buddhas. And then Nirmakaya Buddhas, also a difficult point, such as the Buddha
Shakta Muni, Gurubhema Sambokas. Happened in the 2500 years ago, Buddha, great teacher
came and taught and exploited all the teachings. But after 81 years or 80 years, Buddha entered
Mahabharata in the runs. So that, after that, there's many great teachers came, Gurubhema
Sambokaya Buddhas, also they came and in the way they go. We don't have really capabilities
to meet them and receive teaching. Even they are ready. Then third one is known as the
noble teacher. Noble is Sanskrit word Arya. I'm translating Arya and the debate is called
on Pakwa. Pakwa means those practitioners who reach the first Bhumi, first Bhumi or
seeing path. From the seeing path all the way turned Bhumi, practitioners, are known
as nobles or Aryas or the Pakwas, in Tibetan Pakwa. Why they call them Pakwa? Pakwa means
elevated, elevated actually in the Tibetan. Pa means something elevated. What that means
in the teaching said, elevated from the ordinary mundane conception, mundane ordinary beings
to the noble higher status. Therefore the Pakwa. What in which sense? Because those
post Bhumi or seeing path, they see the true nature of the great emptiness, exactly on
the direct perception status, not intellectual, not theoretical, theoretical, not presumption.
They really see. Therefore is also known as according the path, seeing path. What is seeing?
The true nature. What is the true nature? Egolessness, emptiness, subject and objects
are empty. Empty, when we talk, it doesn't mean that everything disappeared. That's
what we joined in the Heart Sutra. Poem is emptiness. Emptiness is form. We're rejoining
that. What we got? Oh, we can't have the presumption. Oh, poem is emptiness. Emptiness
is form. Can we believe the Buddha teaching? Can we think that? But otherwise, it is merely
rejoining. But these great beings, practicing, seeing that, exactly as it is. Poem is emptiness.
Emptiness is form. Therefore is like magic. There's no solid structures, existence. But
yet is functioning perfectly in the mundane world. What do we see? That is true seeing.
It's not poor seeing. Poor, F-A-L-S, I believe. Poor seeing. Poor seeing. It's true seeing.
That is novel. They are novel. That novel begins from seeing path all the way 10th Bimes.
Those great masters, we can maybe be able to see, such as what we call His Holiness
these days in the Tibetan novel. According to the teaching, they are that status, some
duty. Of course, I don't can tell exactly what realization, what stages they are. And
then many of those great masters are renowned, such as emanation of our lokide shorum. Gaurab
emma sambam. Then truly, they have to be in those stages. Or maybe higher. But we can
see those maybe. So those are known as third teacher. We are coming from top to down. Third,
pakwa. Pakwa, pakwa in Tibet. The fourth one is all-nity teachers now. All-nity teacher.
So-so jevova in Tibet. So-so jevova, regular beings. These regular beings, the teachers,
again how they in the teaching said, those who have been practitioners, who has the teacher
that can be maybe really very big in the practitioners, or countless very expert knowledge and
practices,
or teacher that can be in first two paths. First two paths, what are those? I'm sure
many of you already know the path. Five path, when we call it five path. Accumulation path,
application path, or in the Tibet is called cholam, jolam. Those are also known as all-nity,
but they are very elevated, not just regular all-nity. They're elevated with it. Very good
practitioners. That's why they reach to the path of accumulation path. They reach to,
that's why then from accumulation path they reach to the application path, jolam. Those
are also these according to Buddha teaching. Those accumulation path divided again to three
different levels, and as well as the application path divided in the four different levels,
but however it means they are advancing. Those are the path and the bhoomis are the sign,
measurement of our practitioners' realizations, and that means the realization in the same
time it shows how much emotions, obscurations are cleaned away. Cleared away. Cleared away.
So it's a measurement of that. The gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, lay out the every
sign and a symbol of our inner journey, the spiritual advance and qualities. So they are
all-nity. Then all-nity, there's a goal, maybe just a beginner of the, very beginner of the
first accumulation path practitioners, teachers too. So there's many levels. So now this all-nity
teacher, what is the teaching? Said then the qualifications, teaching, only teaching, then
it's good to know, qualifications of the teachers, generally. And that contrast in Buddhism,
that you all know Buddhism, there is every talk, in particular Mahayana Buddhism or the
Mahayana Buddhism, they talk about three different levels, teachings, three different teachings.
Those are known as basic Buddhist teaching or Vinaya teachings, bodhisattva teachings,
vajayana teachings. So that means practitioners or the teachers of those three different levels.
Vinaya and then bodhisattva yanas and vajayana teachers. Teacher of the Vinaya, that means
basic Buddhist school, teacher of the basic Buddhist schools and teacher of the Mahayana
schools, bodhisattva Mahayana school or Sauter Mahayana school, teachers of the vajayana schools.
So now I go a little bit each of those, one after another. Again, if you like to listen to those,
those, those, and then you also you will have kind of maybe better understand if those people
ever don't know and they like to know that. But generally again, if I talk, the teacher is so
important in Buddhism. Important as a teacher, the Greek teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni said in the
Pandya Paramata teachings, siddhis. Those practitioners or individuals who like to reach
enlightenment, like to the practices, at the very beginning you must search the spiritual friend.
Spiritual friend is another name of the teachers in Buddhism, spiritual.
Gabu-shini, Gabu-shini is ourselves. At the very beginning you should search the good
or spiritual friends. And why? Because when your spiritual friend, again in the Buddha teaching,
said, if you contact the good teacher, that will make you good practitioners
and good person. Therefore you should contact the good teacher or teacher. So now we're talking of
the good teacher. So therefore also in the getting there is kind of false teacher too,
false teacher and good teacher, qualified teacher. According to Buddhism, Buddhism in these three
different ways I already lay out to you. Vinaya teaching and Mahasutta Mahayana and Vayayana.
And the sutta Mahayana, sorry, Vinaya, Vinaya, those are the again summarized,
all the qualifications of the teachers in the teaching mentioned. Those are what? For example,
first is our sin. First, the teacher keeps the moral conduct good. First one is sutta mdi-kem.
So means have the moral conduct. Second, know all the Vinaya teachings, something in the bhachavasi
,
darachwachi. And third is kindness and affection. Those for the needed student who needs some
support, teachers are also very concerned and caring. And fourth one is all the students,
those who are associated, also they are going to come and feast for nice and quite good.
And then next one, and again I'm the list one after another, next one and then helping through
the teaching and helping through the material world to the students. And then occasionally
also explaining the teaching as you need it, needed to kind of to make clear understand.
Those are the qualifications of the Vinaya teachings summarized. So now the first one is
moral conduct keeping. That means keep the moral conduct. That means according to the teaching,
how much moral conduct that many of you already know in the Vinaya teachings,
monks, the fully ordained monks over 250, 253 I believe, or 53, that. But this is not all the
monks. And then there is a winner that upasaka, how much we have? Eight or ten, ten wows, sorry, w
ows.
Ten, eight or ten wows. And generally upasaka was at least five wows.
So that means they're keeping those wows according to what they are. Whether they are upasaka, male
and female, whatever they are, or ordained monk and nun, whatever, and keeping the wows.
According to the teaching, in the Vinaya teachings said what means the keeping means at least that
individually kept the wows for ten years without any mistakes and errors. That's considering quite
stable. Quite stable. Stable. That is the quite good stable who keeps a wow like that.
That without errors. Whatever, whatever that wows, they proceed something of a choice.
And then next one is, that's the brilliant above past one. Second one is seeing that
all the knowledge of those Vinaya teachings, when she can perform and list and conduct that,
explain of those wows clearly, clearly, and then if it's like fully ordered monk, see all the Vin
aya
teachings, all those, how to perform, how to make purify, how to restore, all those instructions,
clearly knowing that. So something in the rejoice. Then others are kind of easy to understand,
easy understanding. So compassionate or caring and concerned for the, for the needed those sick
persons or those people's and poor persons, but those students who need support in the way,
always available, those all listed. That is like qualification of the Vinaya teachings, teachings.
The next one is the bodhisattva yanas. Again, there's generally, there's so many descriptions
on the Vinaya called qualification of the Vinaya teaching, and as well as Sotr Mahayana teaching,
but what I'm explaining or what I'm lay out is generally summarized more kind of popular,
popular than what I'm talking, talking. And the Vinaya now, that is we completed kind of that,
really mentioned. And now, next one is Mahayana. Mahayana, one way, what it said, the great master
Chantideva said in the bodhikariya avatara, or santya sambhe kyobalan yukwa. And what he said,
he summarizes such so profoundly in the two statement in that teaching, said, the spiritual
friend of Mahayana, expert on the entirely Mahayana teaching. That's the number one. Second is,
never give up the vows or the meaning of the bodhikata, even cause to life, cause one's own
life. That too are the vows of the bodhisattvas according great master Chantideva mentioned.
So that means what again in the teaching said, that means of course it's summarized into two,
but that means expert on the meaning of the Mahayana's. So that means the Mahayana
entire teachings, all the Mahayana teachings, Mahayana teachings of the morality, Mahayana
teachings of the meditation, sorry, Mahayana teachings of the wisdom, expert. And never give
up the vows of bodhikata. And what bodhikata actually? There's two bodhikatas, related to
true bodhikata, absolute true bodhikata. You know, we discussed those two and whenever you
already know and read in the books, keeping up that two vows. And then it contains all the
different things. You know that. So that's how great master Chantideva summarized into two.
True. But if we go let a detail of this, this, then in the great master Asenga, or as well as
Arya materials, in the suttara alangaras, or the ornament of the suttara, which summarize
entirely Mahayana teachings, all the vows are really teachings that were by great material,
the future Buddha material. And as he did, taught that to Asenga and brought that teaching to
available in this world known as suttara alangkara om dho de jinn in Tibet. There, great master
explained 10 different, 10, 10 qualities of the spiritual friend, teachers, separate different
or the teachers. Those are again, I try to list that and then go over a little bit each of those.
And then we like to write down again, you can write down that. Pose is the spiritual
spiritual friend should be, and show up, peaceful. So that's one. And the second is gentle. That is
true. Third is very peaceful. And that is a third. And good education, education, all that means
also
good scholars. And good, joyful effort to the virtues. The next one, next one is the first one,
and next one. And knowledge of the entirely reach of the knowledge of the teachings.
Knowledge of the reach, reach of the knowledge of the teaching on this very long flower. So
and realization of the true nature. The next one is realization of true nature.
And quite well spoken or expert, quite expert to expand the teachings,
expand the teacher. And then, and very kindness and compassion. And, and very tolerables,
tolerables, tolerance, or without tired or the bored, B-O-R-E-D-A, I believe bored.
Though I believe there's a 10 now. 10, right? Yeah. Those are the 10 qualities
of the spiritual friend of the Mahayana teaching. Explained little more extensive of the post
chanting there was a true summarize. Now, the first one. What means the first one is peaceful.
Means the first one, peaceful means that person is peaceful and a gentle conduct,
keeping up all the vows. Whatever the vows they received or keeping. So because therefore it is
peaceful. Not wild, not irregularities. B-O-R-E-D-A, don't to the ground, grounded, don't to the
earth.
And the second is gentle, gentle need, gentle of the mind because the concentrations,
meditations, the wild mind is reduced to the gentle, gentleness states.
Fourth one, sorry, third one, very peaceful means understand the wisdom. Their wisdom
is quite good. So that means what? According to Buddhist conscious, three extra ordinary teachings
or practices. They really practicing. That means they had the morality, they had the concentration
or the spiritual friend. They have also practicing of the wisdom. And those are the
extra ordinary training practice of the Buddha teachings. Why use the extra only teachings?
Extra ordinary. Generally it means many schools has moralities. Many schools has concentrations.
But many schools, schools has the wisdom. But Buddha's wisdom teaching is quite going beyond
further than that. Because of the movement, the ego clinging, attachment, negativities.
Therefore, these three extra only teachings, that's what's named three extra ordinary teachings.
Not just ordinary three practices. It is extra ordinary practice because it goes beyond further.
Fundamental of the old troubles is the ego clinging and negative emotions because they are
direct. These teachings are direct to undermine or uproot or dispel, purify those three,
those obscurations. Therefore, it's called extra orneries. So those are the first three.
And then the third one is easy. That means the teacher is more knowledgeable than one's own self.
That means one's own self is a student. We are a student, but we are in the teaching said,
if we are equal, there's nothing much really can help. Even lower than our self also can't help.
Therefore, let it be more better knowledge than our own self. That's why then the college of the
teacher, let them own knowledge, experiences, and understanding of one's own self. So exceeding,
call it, I believe, E-X-C-E-E-D, maybe exceeding call it, is of the knowledge of the Buddha
teaching. This time we're talking Buddha teaching, not science, not any other things because that's
what we're talking about the teaching. So little better than that. And the next one is joyful
effort.
We're choosing joyful effort. That teacher has joyful effort to help to the others and help to
keep up the identity, call it, with the teachings. Teaching is not convoluted and neglecting that.
And that is call it, another call it of the teachers in the teaching. The next one is
long gives out, reach of the knowledge of the Buddha teachings. That means, again,
you all know this Buddha teaching is then those all teaching, Sutra teaching,
when I am teaching, Sutra teaching, Abhidharma teaching, and then also come, all those Buddhas
his own Sanjiv, Kwa, Kwa, and Timkyu. Kwa means his Buddha's own world teachings, and Timkyu means
all the commentaries on the Buddha teaching. So those, whatever they have, I mean,
of course, of those excellent teachers, such as the great master, Dung Kimpa,
great master, Mohan Rinpoche, and all those things, ancient times and modern times, such
as his only Dalai Lama. I mean, so many great teachers, really, they know so many, all those
teachings. And then his only Dalai Lama, who is not now, but he was not too long ago having that,
and his only thing, those have so much knowledge and understanding, all that just, their teachings
are flowing on from the really just, and to kind of sometimes we think, where that coming from?
They just, it's really coming. And all those teachings are so great masters. So like that,
I mean, that is what the qualification of the, one of the qualifications, according to this,
is the teachers. And the next one is, and they have the realization, not just speaking and talking,
talking, but have realization. That way you practice it, meditate it through the studying,
contemplating, meditating, practice, again, realization, some real realization, have the
realization. That is then, that is the, that is one of the qualities in terms of all. And then,
when the teacher gave the teachings, teachings also expounding that teaching, according to the
readiness of the individualist, the readiness of the audience, and they are kind of understandable,
accessible, kind of teaching, pronouncing so nicely, and can understand that. That is one of
the qualities, teaching. And then also, the next one is kindness and compassion and caring thought.
We never, even even needed, they need, they have more love, more kindness, compassion,
not just a kind of walking that on the surface level, from the heart, is really like to help and
support and move forward, along with the teacher, him or herself. Kind of that sincerely thought,
not just the only best on the materials or something that, but really truly from the heart.
Heart like to help and support. That is one, the ninth one, I believe, ninth one.
And the next one is, and the very tolerance, and the difficulty, troubles, troubles, whatever comes
,
the relationship with the teachers and the student, all happening that, but not so temperament,
temperamentals, or not so kind of short temples, but have some tolerance, and understandable,
and not bored and tired with whatever is happening, something, continually keeping,
kind of inspiration, courage, and commitment. And those ten are, then, according to Mahayana
teaching, those are the qualities of the teachers. Teachers. And that is really about this. Now I
will go really, this third one, quality, and then we stop here. And third one is Vaidyana teachings
.
Again in Vaidyana teaching, you all know, I mean, we all heard that. I know, I heard, you heard,
we all heard this. There is three outer tandoora and three inner tandoora and all that, but I talk
with three inner tandoora, among that, will encompass also others too. So again, according to
Numa teaching, in the Numa schools, what to be the business, according to their teaching, this
their teachings. And this is also according to the inner tandoora teaching of the Numa schools,
Mahayana-yoga, Ata-yoga, and this is according to Mahayana teachings, teaching said. So those are
highlighted, call it, of the ad, ad call it. First is what we explained, or we were told in the
teaching, I will say that, that said, and have the three trijals, three trijals. And the fourth one
is, again, you listed that. So then three trijals, and the fourth one is all the dam, d-a-m-p, I
believe,
dam of rivers completely merged, or the river of the, river of the, river is merged to the dam,
dam or the reservoir, reservoir water, reservoir water, had all the waters that, so that is port,
port.
Third, and the fifth one is responsibilities. And the sixth is, is expert,
all the knowledgeable, maybe I use knowledgeable, knowledgeable to the tantrums.
And the seventh one is knowledgeable to the, the ceremonial or actions, activities.
And the eighth is, realizations, or trust and change means realization of the warmth of the
lineage, or lineage warmth, realizations. So those are the eighth qualities that we explained
in the Mahayoga teachings. Again, there's many, but this is summarized, summarized that,
and now the fourth one, three trijals. What are the trijals?
Trijal of the,
trijal of the creation stage of the Mahayoga teachings, teachings, so keeping the trijal of the,
the creation stage of the Mahayoga teaching. Third is, the complete trijal of the,
complete stage of the, of the Anu-Yoga teachings. And the third one is,
trijal of the realization, the view of the Ati-Yoga teachings. Ati-Yoga teachings. So that means,
have knowledge, that means the, the Mahayoga understand or the meaning of the Mahayoga teaching,
Anu-Yoga teaching, and Ati-Yoga teachings. Mahayoga teaching is the, mainly teaches,
what's a high light, again, is not just only that, but teaching. So on the, on the visualization or
the
seeing everything is a purity status. What we're talking earlier, that seeing everything, purity,
poems are purity status. Elements are, not purity, poems are enlightened. Elements are enlightened.
There's nothing is not enlightened. The ordinary enlightened, those in the Mahayoga teaching,
everything is enlightened. Even the Buddha is looking something in, unenlightened,
never going to find anything. The Buddha's omniscient wisdom, radar of the enlightenment,
is searching everywhere, trying to find something is not impure. Or something is impure, sorry.
Something is impure if they look, there's nothing well Buddha find. Everything is purity state,
enlightened status. That is Mahayoga's teaching. In the, in a related truth, everything is a purity
state, absolute truth, everything is a great emptiness state, or they're completely union,
in one unit status. That is Mahayoga teaching. And in Anu-Yoga teaching, every, all our existing
forms
are totally enlightened. Everything is completed. Greater completion. Channels, chakras, and all
the
limbs and everything is enlightened. Everything completed, nothing is missing. From what, completed
?
From the enlightened. Everything is enlightened status. That is really principle. And then that's
what seeing everything. So external is enlightened, inner is enlightened. Everything is enlightened
organically. Activating that qualities and teaching on that is the principle teaching of the Anu-Y
ogas.
Anati-Yogas, they, the mind is already enlightened status. In the light state of the three kayas,
Dharmakaya, Sambukaya, Narmakaya, all really enlightened status. That is the treasure. Those
are the treasures who hold, have the realization at those treasures. That is a keeper of the
treasures. Then all the rivals of the, of the, completed to the den or the reservoir, what those
teachings, all, all the empowerment, lineage and structure, the empowerment are completely
hold by the teacher, that teachers. And those are known as like external empowerment, inner
empowerment, secret empowerment, all, yeah, all beneficial empowerment and, and powerful
empowerment,
profound empowerment. Those are different terminologies where all the empowerment are keeping,
keep completed to that teaching or hold received that, that teacher received that, whether that's
the he or she, those are qualifications. So that is the, the, the fourth one. And the fifth one is
the responsibilities. That's the responsibility being who keeping the responsibility of the
teachings, not just the kind of like using that as tool to the purpose of the samsara activities,
but upkeeping the lineages, have responsibilities, honoring, respecting, maintaining, preserving
that. And the same time that help to the student also helping the supporting, taking care of that,
not just about because of material levels, but it's spiritual connection level,
keeping their connections and having that and feel the relationship, connections, let grow,
help and support that also those students who are connected to you help and support with the
responsibility, genuinely responsibilities supported. So that is called responsibilities.
Next one is then export all the knowledge about the tantrums. And that is again,
the outer tantra, inner tantrums. And then generally, according to the Vedayana teaching,
always the expert on the nayana teachings, all those nayana teachings. So that means
entire, some really knowledge and understandable, entire Buddha teachings, expert, expert. And next
one is, is the expert and knowledgeable of the ceremonies. Ceremonies in the Vedayana,
there's a lot of ceremonies, guru ceremonies or drifts, and so forth. And there's also related
with actions, activities, such as poor activities, activities, and then correlated with those,
there's ritual ceremonies, and the yajnas, all the, all those offerings and the mantras and mandal
as,
and it's all kind of expert, some degree, those qualities. So those are expert and knowledgeable
with those qualities. And next one is then not just only on that outer world, but that
teacher also practicing and keeping that, that warmth of the knowledge, sorry, non-knowledge,
warmth of lineage, keeping that lineage teachings intact and whole. So that I think the Ed really
went at those, those what told in Mahayana teaching and which is encompassed all that. So according
to
teaching, teaching of the Buddhism, if you have this call address, they are the perfect teacher,
perfect teacher in the standard of the ordinary teachers. Remember, we have the four categories.
This we're talking of ordinary teacher, the Arya, the Bodhisattva teacher, and the Nirmakaya
teacher,
Sambokaya teacher, we don't have to mention that. They all have that completely, that
really they don't have. We're talking this call of forgiveness with ordinary teachers.
And if these ordinary teachers had these call addresses, they are known as perfect teachers.
But however, in the teaching set, in the teaching set, in these degeneration times,
it's difficult to find the teacher who has all those call addresses. And even they have,
maybe our knowledge is so weak that we don't recognize everything. So therefore, if there is
that, that kind of like, what's called the cornerstone of the symbol sign of loving kindness,
teacher who has a love and a compassion, respect and appreciation, and keeping up the dharma
according to the Buddha's teaching, the best capabilities, not just only relying on the
materials, not kind of like desiring and chasing the materials. And so that means what in the
teaching set, and less desire, more contentment, and with the love and the compassion, and has
responsibility to keeping up the Buddha teaching and lineage teaching, and kind, if we find that,
also really, then quite good teacher, quite good teacher, that can help us to inspire our
Buddha nature to grow and deepening, deepening that. So that is my brief tour of the, of this
first one. And then if you have these, again, of course, I go this, when you have that, then you
should have that these devotions, particularly devotions, we find teacher like that, then a
devotion is, again, what's called the devotion is paired, F-A-I-T-H, paired, paired, then it
becomes
the devotion, the devotion is maybe more with the love and the compassion and the affection to each
other. Affection cannot just kind of feel something special, this and that, but also really, we are
sharing similar things. So those, and then really rely and learn and grow. So those are mentioned,
but I go over those things continually. So this means first, this first line, I went a little bit
over, or talking a little bit deep, little bit more deep, and so that will kind of help to each
other
us. And thank you very much again for your participating. Thank you. Again, we see tomorrow
every year of time. And again, we do short dedication prayer here, and then we completed
our teaching session. And then after that, we will do the healing practices. And then along with
that,
we do here in the Pima Sami in the Monastery, we do every day Dharmapala practice. So we're going
to do those practices right after this, one after another we do. So we do short dedication prayer
right here. And those people who don't have time to stay all those practices, then you can, I mean,
that's the session we completed. And tomorrow we started around 10 o'clock in the morning,
I think 10 o'clock morning. Then we see again, every year of time. Thank you very much, everyone.
And again, for participation. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Now we do short
dedication prayers. Okay. But you have this booklet, or otherwise we do dedicate narratives,
that what in the teaching said. Thus we did the studying and contemplate on the teaching of the
Greek teacher, Buddha Xactamuni. Whatever gained the merit, we share this merit to all the beings
now and forever to everyone and for their enlightenment, for their goodness. So therefore,
please join your intention with our prayer. So let us share to get this merit. Also in the teaching
said. So with that intention, we do this short dedication prayers. Okay. Thank you.
[Singing]
By this merit, may all of the nominations, may it defeat the enemy around them. From the stormy
waves, the birth, the origin, the sickness, and death. From the ocean of the samsara, may I pray
all being. Okay. That's everything. Thank you very much again for participating. Okay. We,
we concluded our first session and now we begin the second session right now. Thank you. Sorry.
But those who don't have time and the different obligations, so you can also leave or join with
us. We do practice targeting and again, do a little longer dedication. Okay. A better
prayer is up to the end of that. Thank you. Thank you.